# Sitemap

By default the Page object is used to generate the XML and HTML sitemap but any object which has the SEO Extension attached can be included. 

## XML sitemap

An XML sitemap is automatically generated and available at /sitemap.xml. See below for expanding it with more pages and images.

The sitemap includes:
  - The page URL
  - Priority
  - Change frequency
  - Last modified

The settings above can be configured through the SEO admin CMS panel on a per page basis.

## HTML sitemap

A HTML sitemap can be generated by calling the getSiteMapHTML() method

```php
class SitemapPage_Controller extends ContentController {

    public function SitemapHTML()
    {
        return SEO::getSitemapHTML();
    }
}
```

In your template you can call this function to generate a ul list containing all your sitemap pages nested correctly.

```html
<div id="sitemap">
$SitemapHTML
</div>
```

## Adding sitemap pages

When you update your sitemap with more pages both the HTML and XML sitemap reflect this.
Attach the extension to any object your wish to use as a page.

```php
MyObject:
  extensions:
    - SEO_Extension
```

Specify each object within the SEO_Sitemap objects: array
For correct nesting within the HTML sitemap a parent_id is required.
Include a prefix to come before your page URLSegment

```yml
SEO_Sitemap:
  objects:
    MyObject: 
      parent_id: 14
      prefix: 'category/section'
```

## Adding sitemap images

Images are easily added to a sitemap page through the CMS. Use the SEO admin panel sitemap images grid.
Sitemap images are only included in the XML sitemap and will be nested under the parent XML tag.